WIP Basic Installation Docs (#843)
seqeralabs/wave: docs/install/kubernetes.md

---
title: Kubernetes Installation
---

On this page you will find instructions for running and installing Wave on Kubernetes using Kubernetes manifests for the setup. 

Wave allows provisioning container images on-demand, removing the need to build and upload them manually to a container registry.

Containers provisioned by Wave can be both disposable, i.e. ephemeral containers only accessible for a short period of time, and regular long-term registry-persisted container images.

Waves build capabilities such rely on a specific integrations with Kubernetes and AWS EFS Storage making EKS & AWS a hard dependancy for a fully featuered deployment. 

> Wave also supports Augmentation only mode commonly reffered to as "wave-lite" which does not require these cloud provider specific integrations as such this instalation guide will initially focus on the installation on Generic Kubernetes in Augmentation only-mode which can be used across all Kubernetes distubutions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Wave also supports Augmentation only mode commonly referred to as "wave-lite" which does not require these cloud provider-specific integrations as such this installation guide will initially focus on the installation on generic Kubernetes in Augmentation only-mode which can be used across all Kubernetes distributions.
```

```
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
  name: wave-cfg
  namespace: "wave"
  labels:
    app: wave-cfg
data:
  config.yml:
    wave:
      build:
        enabled: false
      mirror:
        enabled: false
      scan:
        enabled: false
      blobCache:
        enabled: false
      db:
        uri: "jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/wave"
        user: "postgres"
        password: "postgres"
    redis:
      uri: "rediss://REPLACE_ME_WAVE_REDIS_URL:6379"
    tower:
      endpoint:
        url: REPLACE_ME_TOWER_SERVER_URL
    micronaut:
      executors:
        stream-executor:
          type: FIXED
          number-of-threads: 16
      netty:
        event-loops:
          default:
            num-threads: 64
          stream-pool:
            executor: stream-executor
      http:
        services:
          stream-client:
            read-timeout: 30s
            read-idle-timeout: 5m
            event-loop-group: stream-pool
    loggers:
      env:
        enabled: false
      bean:
        enabled: false
      caches:
        enabled: false
      refresh:
        enabled: false
      loggers:
        enabled: false
      info:

>         enabled: false

Author: Question are these default disabled can we just remove these from the config example ?

Author: @munishchouhan @pditommaso does this need to be included for a standard deployment ? 

@llewellyn-sl I would not consider this a merge blocker , we can strip this out in the future the hope was to make the config smaller.

Reviewer 2: Yes, these are false by default. I will remove them
https://docs.micronaut.io/latest/guide/index.html#loggersEndpoint

      metrics:

>         enabled: true

Author: Afaik this is required for prom metrics I think we can remove this from the install guide and move this into a section for configuring metrics.

      health:
        enabled: true
        disk-space:
          enabled: false
        jdbc:

>           enabled: false

Author: As above can we drop these and move them to their own config section.

```

## Create deployment

```
---
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: wave
  namespace: "wave"
  labels:
    app: wave-app
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: wave-app
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: wave-app
    spec:
      containers:
        - image: REPLACE_ME_AWS_ACCOUNT.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/nf-tower-enterprise/wave:REPLACE_ME_WAVE_IMAGE_TAG
          name: wave-app
          ports:
            - containerPort: 9090
          env:
            - name: MICRONAUT_ENVIRONMENTS
              value: "postgres,redis,lite"

>             - name: WAVE_JVM_OPTS

Author: Are the default JVM opts suitable or should we provide specific opts for the customer.

Author: @llewellyn-sl I think we can remove this line for now.

title: Kubernetes installation
---

Wave enables you to provision container images on-demand, removing the need to build and upload them manually to a container registry. Wave can can provision both disposable containers that are only accessible for a short period, and regular registry-persisted container images.

This installation guide covers Wave in **augmentation-only mode** (referred to here as `wave-lite`), which provides:

- **inspect** - Container inspection and metadata retrieval
- **augment** - Container image augmentation with additional layers

Wave's full build capabilities require specific integrations with Kubernetes and AWS EFS Storage, making EKS & AWS a hard dependency for fully-featured deployments. The following Wave features are **not** available in this configuration:

- **Container Freeze**
- **Container Build service** 
- **Container Mirror service**
- **Container Security scanning**
- **Container blobs caching**

:::info
After you have configured a base Wave installation with this guide, see [Configuring Wave Build](./configuring-wave-build.md) to extend your installation to support build capabilities.
:::
 
## Prerequisites

**Required infrastructure:**

> - **Kubernetes cluster** - Version 1.20 or higher (any distribution)

Author: ```suggestion
- **Kubernetes cluster** - Version 1.31 or higher (any distribution)
```
